I'm at Arecibo Observatory in Perto Ric.
With a diameter of 300 m it is one of the largest radio telescopes in the world.
I saw photos and videos before I came here,
but honestly, it's impossible to capture the entire telescope on the camera.
It's huge.
For 50 years listening to the sky, and one day
can save the world.
Arecibo was part of a broad space exploration.
We have discovered pre-biotic molecules in distant galaxies,
the first millisecond pulsar and the first exoplanets.
The great success that everyone knows,
is the Nobel Prize for the discovery of a binary pulsar
and its decay - just as the general theory of relativity assumed.
We have 50 years of discoveries,
so I could talk about them for 50 years.
One of the most incredible things in this observatory is
this hanging platform I'm just standing on.
The entire colossal structure is suspended on ropes,
like a suspension bridge - there are no pillars
which would hold us in the air and which would ensue.
The whole of this weight holds three concrete towers distributed around a plate.
In addition, this platform is not static - much of it is moving.
Telescope by moving along a short run north and south,
from here it can watch a whole third of the sky.
The shape of the plate is spherical.
However,
that the spherical mirror does not have a focus - like hyperbole -
which we are accustomed to with large optical and most large radio telescopes.
And so the signal can be focused,
the so-called Gregorian dome contains two smaller mirrors.
These smaller mirrors then focus everything.
That means we can have far more precise bandwidths in the Gregorian dome
and we can cover the frequency from 0.3GHz to 10GHz.
But Arecibo can do something that most radio telescopes can not do.
In 1974, Arecibo sent a famous message to the stars,
but there are even more useful uses
to transmit powerful energy pulses into space: radar.
Arecibo can capture radar rays reflected from planets, asteroids
and indeed from anything in the nearby solar system
And that can be used to create sharp shots of what's up there in the dark.
The advantage of using radar imaging is,
that you can recognize the shapes far better than the optical image.
We can track individual boulders on the surface if they are close enough;
we can see if they are bone-shaped or if they look like ... potatoes!
S-band transmitter is a high-performance device,
which operates at 2380MHz, the so-called S-band.
The entire transmitter is powered by one megawatt.
This transmitter creates a beam of energy,
and if you put your hand under him, you can burn yourself
We mostly observe nearby asteroids.
When a new asteroid is discovered whose orbit is not yet specified,
the main thing we can do is to refine the information about its movement.
When you send a signal that reflects from a moving object,
the wavelength of the reflected signal will change,
if the asteroid moves toward or away from the observer.
In this way, we can determine the speed of the asteroid with an accuracy of millimeters per second.
When a new asteroid is found, its distance can be determined
with accuracy of hundreds or even tens of meters.
We can determine exactly where the asteroid will be located
in tens or hundreds of years from now.
The preliminary orbital information of the Apophis asteroid showed,
that he could really hit us.
But then, when the asteroid was observed with radar, it was found to fly very close,
possibly interfering with satellites orbiting the earth,
but it does not interfere with it.
It is very important to know because now
we know we do not have to send Bruce Willis to divert the asteroid (!)
Of all natural disasters
Asteroids are one of the things we can avoid.
Earthquakes, volcanoes, these are things that just happen and with which we can not help.
But if we notice an asteroid in time,
we can divert it.
I thank all of the Arecibo Observatory very much.
If you wanted to find out more about these and their discoveries,
scroll down for more links
and if you want to look behind the scenes of this video,
so Matt, who is behind the camera, took a lot of shots,
and put them together for the second channel.